---
layout: post
title: "[CS 5024] Writing Assignment 2"
date: 2021-02-04
---
> <b>Write about the ethical theory or combination of theories that form(s) the baseline for weighing your actions as good or bad. Please describe any experience or situation in which you applied this.</b>


I would say that I subscribe to a mixed bag of ethical theories and the application of those theories depend on the situation at hand. The most applied theory I use is Altruism, while I like to muse on the ethical theories of Absolutism and Relativism on a sliding scale.

When it comes to practical applications, I tend to use Altruism to make the majority of my decisions. As mentioned in my previous post, I’m very family-oriented even at the expense of my well-being. I’m willing to contribute financially, I often consider how my decisions impact that familial dynamic, and I will often set aside my disagreements as long as my family is happy. The most recent and extreme example I can think of is my decision to continue a relationship and change jobs or keep my current job that is closer to my family and will maintain my scholarship. It was a tough decision as I cherished the relationship and could set high expectations for a different career. It was clear the other person couldn’t commit to my end either as she had a great opportunity lined up for her as well. Barring other circumstances that are too personal to discuss, I ultimately decided to keep my current job. The major reasons were to ensure I don’t impose anymore debt if I get out of my scholarship and that I can still interact with my family nearby. Honestly I was heartbroken, but I was comforted in the fact that my family would reap the benefits of the decision and I wouldn’t harbor familial regrets by taking that severe of a risk. I also recognized she would do great things, regardless of my presence or not and deserved someone who could commit. It was very much a long-term, stable consideration versus a short-term but happier alternative and through alturism I decided on the one that would help the larger group the most.

When musing about ethical dilemmas and discussing other related topics such as politics and religion, I often consider Absolutism and Relativism on a spectrum. Since I grew up in Christianity, I harbor this Absolutist mentally that the Bible is an ultimate authority and universal set of rules of sorts. Tradition is a factor, but it is primarily because it has been a  good standard to follow to this day. However, I do recognize situations where those same rules can’t apply. For example, the topic of alcoholism and drinking was a major discussion between me and some peers. Biblically, it states that we shouldn’t drink alcohol as we may become negatively influenced by it (Proverbs 20:1, Ephesians 5:18) and personally I adhere to that law and practice avoidance. However, I also recognize that practically you can’t enforce that on everyone (think of Prohibition era) and even with other Christians as they may have their own justifications behind it. In regards to respecting others and being cautious of judgement as said in the Bible (John 13:35) I ought not to enforce it and elect to disagree respectfully. So while I may adhere to Absolutism and think everyone should follow these rules, I also subscribe to the fact that it’s not practical to think that and other people live under different rules as what Relativism states. So sort of in an inversion of a common statement “Rules for me, but not for thee“, I would say I fall in the middle of that spectrum depending on context and topic. 

Overall, there isn’t one exact ethical theory I subscribe to. In fact, I think a lot of them are valid in their own right. It’s great to consider different perspectives and evaluate what you value more in a situation. But practically, I adhere to Altruism, Absolutism, and Relativism to make the major ethical decisions in my life.
