---
layout: post
title: "[CS 5024] Writing Assignment 1"
date: 2021-01-19
---
> <b>Write about your own values and principles and where you got it from</b>

Aside from the universally accepted principles such as honesty, respect, and kindness that are conveyed throughout society, most of my values and principles originate from some form of an external influence I experienced in my formative years.

I was born into a Filipino household that practiced Christianity. I would say the majority of my values comes from learning from the Bible and practicing eastern traditions.

As a result, I started out with conservative values and various traditions, that I still carry today. For example, I am very centered around the family unit. With great emphasis on respecting your elders through usage of the Tagalog word <i>[po](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mano_(gesture)#:~:text=The%20po%20is%20usually%20affixed,as%20a%20sign%20of%20respect.)</i> and with following the adage from [Ephesians 6:1-2](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Ephesians+6&version=KJV), this often leads to great sacrifice of self for the group. I always consider how my decisions impact my relationship with my family, rather than taking an easier, more selfish approach. That isn't to say those who didn't have similar backgrounds cannot have those values, but more so it's an explaination on how I come to realize them.

When I grew up, through attendeding school and active particpation on the Internet, I also picked up some more liberal values. I'm generally in favor of our government providing the resources we need such as Healthcare and Welfare in exchange for a higher tax. It's a social contract that is established between the government and its people and if the majority is cared for then everyone benefits. This isn't to say that conservatives don't echo that same sentiment, but rather it's a common idea among most liberals.

However, despite this variety of values I hold, I wouldn't be able to clearly classify myself into a distinct label. I may agree with certain positions, but ultimately my character is defined by an amalgamation of my influences. Both stances aim to benefit the greater whole or have an overall net positive on people's lives.

In short, the values I hold can be complex and nuanced, but at the core they focus on positive impacts on society and being considerate of our fellow man.
